ARM templates - MMA for Servers (#58)
likamrat/azure_arc: azure_arc_servers_jumpstart/docs/arc_policies_mma.md

# Overview

> The following README will guide you on how to use Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following README will guide you on to assign Azure Policies to servers deployed outside of Azure (whether on-premises or in other clouds) while leveraging Azure Arc. With this feature, you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected server, and in case found as non-compliant, you can also trigger a remediation task. 

```

> In this case we will assign a policy to audit if the Azure Arc connected machine has the (Microsoft Monitoring Agent) MMA agent installed, if not, we will use the extensions feature to automatically deploy it to the VM, an enrollment experience that levels to Azure VMs. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as: Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will assign a policy in order to audit if the Azure Arc connected server has the (Microsoft Monitoring Agent) MMA agent installed. If not, we will use the Extensions feature to automatically deploy it to the VM to get the same experience we have with Azure VMs. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 
```

> In this case we will assign a policy to audit if the Azure Arc connected machine has the (Microsoft Monitoring Agent) MMA agent installed, if not, we will use the extensions feature to automatically deploy it to the VM, an enrollment experience that levels to Azure VMs. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as: Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 

Reviewer: Try to have a unified language. Rather you are using "you" or "we", try to stick with it throughout the README.

You can use the Azure Portal, Azure CLI, an ARM template or PowerShell script to assign policies to Azure Subscriptions or Resource Groups. In this guide, you will use an ARM template to assign built-in policies. 

**Note: This guide assumes you already deployed VMs or servers that are running on-premises or other clouds and you have connected them to Azure Arc.**

**If you haven't, this repository offers you a way to do so in an automated fashion:**
- **[GCP Ubuntu VM](gcp_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [GCP Windows VM](gcp_terraform_windows.md)**
- **[AWS Ubuntu VM](aws_terraform_ubuntu.md)**
- **[VMware Ubuntu VM](vmware_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [VMware Windows Server VM](vmware_terraform_winsrv.md)**
- **[Local Ubuntu VM](local_vagrant_ubuntu.md) / [Local Windows VM](local_vagrant_windows.md)**

# Prerequisites

* Clone this repo.

* As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc.In the screenshots below we can see a GCP server has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.

>     ![](../img/vm_policies/01.png)

Reviewer: make sure have dedicated images for each scenario. if you need to copy an existing image, that's fine but don't point to a folder from a different scenario.

>     ![](../img/vm_policies/02.png)

Reviewer: make sure have dedicated images for each scenario. if you need to copy an existing image, that's fine but don't point to a folder from a different scenario.

Author: they are dedicated, same image but on dedicated folders

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  
```

    To connect a VM or bare-metal server to Azure Arc, Azure Service Principal assigned with the "Contributor" role is required. To create it, login to your Azure account run the below command (this can also be done in [Azure Cloud Shell](https://shell.azure.com/)).

  ```bash
    az login
    az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "<Unique SP Name>" --role contributor
    ```
    For example:
    ```az ad sp create-for-rbac -n "http://AzureArcServers" --role contributor```
    Output should look like this:
    ```
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcServers",
    "name": "http://AzureArcServers",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```
    
**Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).

* You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json) and provide a name and location for your workspace. 

>     ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

Reviewer: make sure have dedicated images for each scenario. if you need to copy an existing image, that's fine but don't point to a folder from a different scenario.

> **Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).
> 
> * You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json) and provide a name and location for your workspace. 
> 
>     ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)
> 
> Then start the deployment with the command:
> 
>     ```bash
>     az deployment group create --resource-group <resource-group-name> --template-file <path-to-template> --parameters <path-to-parametersfile>
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json), provide a name and location for your workspace. To start the deployment, use the below command:

    ```bash
    az deployment group create --resource-group <resource-group-name> --template-file <path-to-template> --parameters <path-to-parametersfile>
    ```

    ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

```

# Azure Policies on Azure Arc connected machines

> * Now that we have all the requirements set. We can assign policies to our Arc connected machines using these commands. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now that we have all the prerequisites set, we can assign policies to our Arc connected machines using these commands. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 
```

    ![](../img/vm_policies/04.png)
    

> Then start the deployment with the command: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the deployment, use the below command: 
```

    ```bash
    az policy assignment create --name 'Enable Azure Monitor for VMs' --scope '/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/resourceGroups/<resource_group>' --policy-set-definition '55f3eceb-5573-4f18-9695-226972c6d74a' -p "<path_to_json>" --assign-identity --location "<region>"

>     ```

Reviewer: - Can you make the change the command to a multi-line format? Easier to read.
- Would be good to provide an explanation on the "--policy-set-definition" flag

# Overview

> The following README will guide you on how to use Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following README will guide you on how to use Azure Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 
```

> # Overview
> 
> The following README will guide you on how to use Azure Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings in the operating system of an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 
> 
> In this case, you will assign a built-in policy to audit if an Azure Arc connected machine has the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) installed. If it does not, the policy will automatically deploy the agent to the VM.. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as: Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 
> 
> You can use the Azure Portal, Azure CLI, an ARM template or PowerShell script to assign policies to Azure Subscriptions or Resource Groups. In this guide, you will use an ARM template to assign built-in policies. 
> 
> **Note: This guide assumes you already deployed VMs or servers that are running on-premises or other clouds and you have connected them to Azure Arc.**
> 
> **If you haven't, this repository offers you a way to do so in an automated fashion:**
> - **[GCP Ubuntu VM](gcp_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [GCP Windows VM](gcp_terraform_windows.md)**
> - **[AWS Ubuntu VM](aws_terraform_ubuntu.md)**
> - **[VMware Ubuntu VM](vmware_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [VMware Windows Server VM](vmware_terraform_winsrv.md)**
> - **[Local Ubuntu VM](local_vagrant_ubuntu.md) / [Local Windows VM](local_vagrant_windows.md)**
> 
> # Prerequisites
> 
> * Clone this repo.
> 
> * As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below you can see a GCP server has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Overview

The following README will guide you on how to use Azure Arc for servers to assign Azure Policies to VMs outside of Azure, whether they are on-premises or other clouds. With this feature, you can now use Azure Policies to audit settings and configurations of the operating system in an Azure Arc connected servers, if a setting is not compliant you can also trigger a remediation task. 

In this case, you will assign a built-in policy to audit if an Azure Arc connected machine has the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA) installed. If it does not, the policy will automatically deploy the agent to the VM. This approach can be used to make sure all your servers are onboarded to services such as Azure Monitor, Azure Security Center, Azure Sentinel, etc. 

You can use the Azure Portal, Azure CLI, an ARM template or PowerShell script to assign policies to Azure Subscriptions or Resource Groups. In this guide, you will use an ARM template to assign built-in policies. 

**Note: This guide assumes you already deployed VMs or servers that are running on-premises or other clouds and you have connected them to Azure Arc.**

**If you haven't, this repository offers you a way to do so in an automated fashion:**
- **[GCP Ubuntu VM](gcp_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [GCP Windows VM](gcp_terraform_windows.md)**
- **[AWS Ubuntu VM](aws_terraform_ubuntu.md)**
- **[VMware Ubuntu VM](vmware_terraform_ubuntu.md) / [VMware Windows Server VM](vmware_terraform_winsrv.md)**
- **[Local Ubuntu VM](local_vagrant_ubuntu.md) / [Local Windows VM](local_vagrant_windows.md)**

# Prerequisites

* Clone this repo.

* As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below you can see a GCP server has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.
```

> * As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below you can see a GCP server has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As mentioned, this guide starts at the point where you already deployed and connected VMs or servers to Azure Arc. In the screenshots below you can see a Google Cloud Platform (GCP) server instance has been connected with Azure Arc and is visible as a resource in Azure.
```

    Output should look like this:
    ```
    {
    "appId": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "displayName": "AzureArcServers",
    "name": "http://AzureArcServers",
    "password": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
    "tenant": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX"
    }
    ```
    
**Note**: It is optional but highly recommended to scope the SP to a specific [Azure subscription and Resource Group](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ad/sp?view=azure-cli-latest).

* You will also need to have a Log Analytics Workspace deployed. You can automate the deployment by editing the ARM template [parameters file](../policies/arm/log_analytics-template.parameters.json), provide a name and location for your workspace

    ![](../img/vm_policies/03.png)

To deploy the ARM template, navigate to the [deployment folder](../policies/arm) and run the below command:

  ```bash
    az deployment group create --resource-group <Name of the Azure Resource Group> \
    --template-file <The *log_analytics-template.json* template file location> \
    --parameters <The *log_analytics-template.parameters.json* template file location>
  ```

# Azure Policies on Azure Arc connected machines

> * Now that you have all the requirements set, you can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now that you have all the prerequisites set, you can assign policies to our Arc connected machines. Edit the [parameters file](../policies/arm/policy.json) to provide your subscription ID as well as the Log Analytics Workspace. 
```
